2.2.1.1
Security Frameworks - Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy
Security Controls - Safeguards designed to reduce specific risks
encryption - process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format
cyphertext - raw encoded language unreadable to users or computers
Authentication - Process of verifying who someone or something is
MFA - Multifactor Authentication
Biometrics - Fingerprint, Voiceprint
Vishing - exploitation of electronix voice communication to obtatain sensitive information or impersonate a known source
Authorization - concept of granting access to specific resources within a system

2.2.2.1

CIA triad - model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies
Confidentiality - Only authorized users can access specific assets or data
Integrity - Data is correct, authentic, available
Availability - Data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it 

2.2.3.1
Update: The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk. 

In the latest version, CSF v2.0, a new 'Govern' function has been added, emphasizing the importance of strong cybersecurity governance. This framework is widely respected and essential for maintaining security regardless of the organization you work for.

The CSF now consists of six important core functions: Govern, Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover, which we'll discuss in detail in a future video.

CSF v2.0 also places greater emphasis on supply chain risk management.

Govern - 
Update: Govern Function 

A significant update in the latest version of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework is the inclusion of a new core function: Govern. This function emphasizes the importance of strong cybersecurity governance across all levels of the organization. It's about establishing and maintaining the structures and processes needed to effectively manage cybersecurity risk. This includes things like setting clear cybersecurity objectives, ensuring leadership commitment, developing and implementing a comprehensive risk management strategy, and continuously improving cybersecurity performance.

Identify - management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organizations people and assets
Protect - strategy used to protect an organizarion through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats
Detect - identify potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase speed and efficiency of detections
Respond - making sure the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents and implement improvements to the security process
Recover - Recover - process of returning affected workstations back to normal operation

2.2.4.1 OWASP principles and security audits - OWASP security principles
Open -
Web -
Application -
Security -  
Project -

1. Minimize attack surface area
2. Principle of least priviledge - reduce damage security breach could cause
3. Defense in depth - multiple security controls addressing threats in different ways
4. Separation of duties - nobody should be given so much priveldge that they could damage the system
5. Keep security simple
6. Fix security issues correctly

1. Minimize attack surface area: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.

2. Principle of least privilege: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.

3. Defense in depth: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.

4. Separation of duties: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege. 

5. Keep security simple: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult. 

6. Fix security issues correctly: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.





2.2.4.3



2.2.4.4
Security Audit - review of an organizations security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations
Internal Security Audit - used to help improve org's security posture and help orgs avoid fines from governing agencies due to a lack of compliance. 
Helps identify rorganizational risk, assess controls and correct compliance issues
    Common elements
        Establishing Scope and Goals
        Conducting a risk assessment
        Completing a controls assessment
        Assessing compliance
    Scope - refers to specific criteria of an internal security audit
        Requires organizations identify people, assets, policies, procedures, and technologies that might implacr an orgs security posture
    Goals - outline of the orgs security objectives



2.2.4.5
Audit Questions - What is the audit meant to achieve?
Which Assets are most at risk?
Are current condition controls sufficient to protect those assets
What controls and compliance regulations need to be implemented?

Control categories -
1. Administrative - related to human component of cybersecity. 
        Policies and Procedures that define how an org manages data such as implementation of password policies
2. Technical -  hardware and software solutions used to protext assets. 
        ex. Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS),  and encryption
3. Physical - measures emplyoed to prevent physical access to assets, such as desk-locks, surveillance cameras, and roving sharks with laser beams attached to their friggin heads as roving security


Compliance - regulations are laws that orgs must followto ensure private data remains secure. 
Communication - results and recommendationsneed to be communicated with stakeeholders
        lists existing risksand otes how quickly those risks need to be addressed. additionally it identifies compliance regilations the org needs to adhere to and provides recommendations dfor improving the orgs security posture
        

EU - GDPR and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard or PCI DSS