Professional statement outline

To develop a professional statement that brie

y explains who you are and what you are

passionate about, follow the steps outlined.
Note: You will need a piece of paper or a blank word processing document to complete this
activity
Step one
List two to three strengths that you currently have or are commi

ed to developing (e.g.,

strong wri

en and verbal communication, time management, programming, etc.).

Having an inventory of your strengths can help you create your professional statement. It may
also encourage you to focus on skills you want to develop as you progress through the
certi
cate program.
Step two
List one to two values you have (e.g., protecting organizations, protecting people, adhering
to laws, ensuring equitable access, etc.).
Establishing your values can help you and a prospective employer determine if your goals are
aligned. Ensure that you are representing yourself accurately, and be honest about what
motivates you.
Step three
Ask yourself some clarifying questions to determine what to include in your professional
statement:
1. What most interests me about the

eld of cybersecurity?

2. Who is the audience for my professional statement (e.g., cybersecurity recruiters,
speci
c organizations, government employers, etc.)?

3. In what ways can my strengths, values, and interest in cybersecurity support the
security goals of various organizations?
Note: This is just a dra

. You should continue to revise and re

ne your professional statement,
throughout the program, until you feel that it’s ready to share with potential employers.

tep 2: Draft your professional statement
Your professional statement is your opportunity to show prospective employers who you are as a person and potential employee, and it allows them to understand the value you can bring to the organization.

Note: You will not submit/upload your professional statement directly into this activity; you will need to download/save it to your own device. Then, upload it to the portfolio platform/site of your choice when it’s ready to share with potential employers. 

Use these guidelines to develop your draft professional statement:

Use your own device to open a word processing document or application (or use a blank piece of paper).

Refer to your professional statement outline notes from step one and consider:

What are your strengths (ones you currently have or plan to develop)?

What are your values?

What interests you most about a career in cybersecurity?

How can your strengths, values, and interest in cybersecurity support the security goals of various organizations?

Draft a two- to three-sentence professional statement that includes details about your strengths, values, and interest in cybersecurity, as well as how they can support the security goals of various organizations.

Refer to the following professional statement examples for ideas: 

Example A: I am a highly motivated and detail-oriented cybersecurity analyst. I actively work to identify and analyze potential risks, threats, and vulnerabilities to security and ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of assets, to help safeguard organizations and people alike. 

Example B: I am enthusiastic about information security and enjoy finding solutions that can positively impact an organization and the people it serves. I place a high value on maintaining a strong security posture to help protect sensitive information and mitigate risk.