My name is Ashley, and I'm a Customer Engineering Enablement Lead for Security Operation Sales at Google. I'm excited to be your instructor for this course.
Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12
Let's start by quickly reviewing what we've covered so far. Earlier, we defined security and explored some common job responsibilities for entry-level analysts. We also discussed core skills and knowledge that analysts need to develop. Then, we shared some key events like the LoveLetter and Morris attacks that led to the development and ongoing evolution of the security field. We also introduced you to frameworks, controls, and the CIA triad, which are all used to reduce risk.
Play video starting at ::50 and follow transcript0:50
In this course, we'll discuss the focus of Certified Information Systems Security Professional's, or CISSP's, eight security domains. We'll also cover security frameworks and controls in more detail, with a focus on NIST's Risk Management Framework. Additionally, we'll explore security audits, including common elements of internal audits. Then, we'll introduce some basic security tools, and you'll have a chance to explore how to use security tools to protect assets and data from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
Play video starting at :1:30 and follow transcript1:30
Securing an organization and its assets from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities is an important step in maintaining business operations. In my experience as a security analyst, I helped respond to a severe breach that cost the organization nearly $250,000. So, I hope you're feeling motivated to continue your security journey. I know I'm excited. Let's get started!

The world of security, which we also refer to as cybersecurity throughout this program, is vast. So making sure that you have the knowledge, skills, and tools to successfully navigate this world is why we're here.
Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17
In the following videos, you'll learn about the focus of CISSP's eight security domains. Then, we'll discuss threats, risks, and vulnerabilities in more detail. We'll also introduce you to the three layers of the web and share some examples to help you understand the different types of attacks that we'll discuss throughout the program. Finally, we'll examine how to manage risks by using the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Risk Management Framework, known as the NIST RMF.
Play video starting at ::53 and follow transcript0:53
Because these topics and related technical skills are considered core knowledge in the security field, continuing to build your understanding of them will help you mitigate and manage the risks and threats that organizations face on a daily basis.
Play video starting at :1:9 and follow transcript1:09
In the next video, we'll further discuss the focus of the eight security domains introduced in the first course.

0:01
Welcome back! You might remember from course one that there are eight security domains, or categories, identified by CISSP. Security teams use them to organize daily tasks and identify gaps in security that could cause negative consequences for an organization, and to establish their security posture. Security posture refers to an organization's ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change.
Play video starting at ::35 and follow transcript0:35
In this video, we'll discuss the focus of the first four domains: security and risk management, asset security, security architecture and engineering, and communication and network security.
Play video starting at ::51 and follow transcript0:51
The first domain is security and risk management. There are several areas of focus for this domain: defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and legal regulations. Let's discuss each area of focus in more detail.
Play video starting at :1:12 and follow transcript1:12
By defining security goals and objectives, organizations can reduce risks to critical assets and data like PII, or personally identifiable information. Risk mitigation means having the right procedures and rules in place to quickly reduce the impact of a risk like a breach. Compliance is the primary method used to develop an organization's internal security policies, regulatory requirements, and independent standards. Business continuity relates to an organization's ability to maintain their everyday productivity by establishing risk disaster recovery plans.
Play video starting at :1:58 and follow transcript1:58
And finally, while laws related to security and risk management are different worldwide, the overall goals are similar. As a security professional, this means following rules and expectations for ethical behavior to minimize negligence, abuse, or fraud.
Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18
The next domain is asset security. The asset security domain is focused on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data. This means that assets such as PII or SPII should be securely handled and protected, whether stored on a computer, transferred over a network like the internet, or even physically collected. Organizations also need to have policies and procedures that ensure data is properly stored, maintained, retained, and destroyed. Knowing what data you have and who has access to it is necessary for having a strong security posture that mitigates risk to critical assets and data.
Play video starting at :3:13 and follow transcript3:13
Previously, we provided a few examples that touched on the disposal of data. For example, an organization might have you, as a security analyst, oversee the destruction of hard drives to make sure that they're properly disposed of. This ensures that private data stored on those drives can't be accessed by threat actors.
Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35
The third domain is security architecture and engineering. This domain is focused on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place to protect an organization's assets and data. One of the core concepts of secure design architecture is shared responsibility. Shared responsibility means that all individuals within an organization take an active role in lowering risk and maintaining both physical and virtual security. By having policies that encourage users to recognize and report security concerns, many issues can be handled quickly and effectively.
Play video starting at :4:22 and follow transcript4:22
The fourth domain is communication and network security, which is mainly focused on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. Secure networks keep an organization's data and communications safe whether on-site, or in the cloud, or when connecting to services remotely.
Play video starting at :4:44 and follow transcript4:44
For example, employees working remotely in public spaces need to be protected from vulnerabilities that can occur when they use insecure bluetooth connections or public wifi hotspots. By having security team members remove access to those types of communication channels at the organizational level, employees may be discouraged from practicing insecure behavior that could be exploited by threat actors.
Play video starting at :5:13 and follow transcript5:13
Now that we've reviewed the focus of our first four domains, let's discuss the last four domains.

0:00
In this video, we'll cover the last four domains: identity and access management, security assessment and testing, security operations, and software development security.
Play video starting at ::15 and follow transcript0:15
The fifth domain is identity and access management, or IAM. And it's focused on access and authorization to keep data secure by making sure users follow established policies to control and manage assets. As an entry-level analyst, it's essential to keep an organization's systems and data as secure as possible by ensuring user access is limited to what employees need. Basically, the goal of IAM is to reduce the overall risk to systems and data.
Play video starting at ::48 and follow transcript0:48
For example, if everyone at a company is using the same administrator login, there is no way to track who has access to what data. In the event of a breach, separating valid user activity from the threat actor would be impossible.
Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05
There are four main components to IAM. Identification is when a user verifies who they are by providing a user name, an access card, or biometric data such as a fingerprint. Authentication is the verification process to prove a person's identity, such as entering a password or PIN. Authorization takes place after a user's identity has been confirmed and relates to their level of access, which depends on the role in the organization. Accountability refers to monitoring and recording user actions, like login attempts, to prove systems and data are used properly.
Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46
The sixth security domain is security assessment and testing. This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security control testing can help an organization identify new and better ways to mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This involves examining organizational goals and objectives, and evaluating if the controls being used actually achieve those goals. Collecting and analyzing security data regularly also helps prevent threats and risks to the organization.
Play video starting at :2:28 and follow transcript2:28
Analysts might use security control testing evaluations and security assessment reports to improve existing controls or implement new controls. An example of implementing a new control could be requiring the use of multi-factor authentication to better protect the organization from potential threats and risks.
Play video starting at :2:50 and follow transcript2:50
Next, let's discuss security operations. The security operations domain is focused on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures. Investigations begin once a security incident has been identified. This process requires a heightened sense of urgency in order to minimize potential risks to the organization. If there is an active attack, mitigating the attack and preventing it from escalating further is essential for ensuring that private information is protected from threat actors.
Play video starting at :3:24 and follow transcript3:24
Once the threat has been neutralized, the collection of digital and physical evidence to conduct a forensic investigation will begin. A digital forensic investigation must take place to identify when, how, and why the breach occurred. This helps security teams determine areas for improvement and preventative measures that can be taken to mitigate future attacks.
Play video starting at :3:50 and follow transcript3:50
The eighth and final security domain is software development security. This domain focuses on using secure coding practices. As you may remember, secure coding practices are recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services. The software development lifecycle is an efficient process used by teams to quickly build software products and features. In this process, security is an additional step. By ensuring that each phase of the software development lifecycle undergoes security reviews, security can be fully integrated into the software product.
Play video starting at :4:32 and follow transcript4:32
For example, performing a secure design review during the design phase, secure code reviews during the development and testing phases, and penetration testing during the deployment and implementation phase ensures that security is embedded into the software product at every step. This keeps software secure and sensitive data protected, and mitigates unnecessary risk to an organization.
Play video starting at :4:59 and follow transcript4:59
Being familiar with these domains can help you better understand how they're used to improve the overall security of an organization and the critical role security teams play. Next, we'll discuss security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities, including ransomware, and introduce you to the three layers of the web.

My name is Ashley and my role at Google is CE Enablement Lead for SecOps sales. All that means is I help set up training for customer engineers that support our products. Grew up with a computer, loved the Internet. I have one of the earliest AOL screen names in history and I'm very proud of that. My dad is an engineer and I think there was always an interest in tech. But when I got out of high school, there wasn't a clear path to get there. It wasn't a linear path at all. I was a knucklehead growing up. I gave up in 10th grade and I just didn't care for a long time and I was getting in trouble a lot and I pretty much told myself if I don't join the military and get out of here, I will probably not be here in about 2-3 years if I continue down this path. I joined the army right out of high school, graduated in June, and four days later I was at bootcamp at Fort Jackson, South Carolina as a trumpet player, believe it or not, I come back and had to get a job and was not even tracking on tech jobs or anything like that. I was pulling in carts for a big hardware store, selling video games, retail, box slinger for a freight company. All of that stuff has happened before I even figured out that tech was an option. The military was kind enough to retrain me in IT, and that's kind of how I actually got the official first wave of schooling to be able to actually say, hey, I have the skills to at least be a PC technician. I went back to community college and I actually did find a cybersecurity associates degree program, worked on some certifications. I went to my first DEFCON, which is a big hacking conference, and that set off a light bulb, I think to actually get that clarity on what the path could look like. I landed my first security analyst job back in 2017 and I went to a Veterans Training Program at my last company that was free for vets and ended up getting hired out of the training. I was with that company for almost five years before I came to Google. If you're new and you're just coming in, you have to know how to work with a team. I think a lot of us learned that in customer service settings. Some of the skills I learned working in retail, dealing with hard customers, learning how to even talk to people or diffuse a situation if people are upset about things, just learning how to talk to people. In IT we need that. It's no longer just the tech skills we need, the more T-shaped which they're soft skills, there's people skills, and there's technical skills. You have to have good analysis skills, and again, it doesn't even have to be technical analysis, if you can read a book and pick apart the rhetorical devices of that story, you can do analysis work. I didn't have to be a software engineer to work in this field. For many of us, there's like a math fear, programming is a big hurdle, but we work with people, we work with processes, and you don't necessarily need to have that coding knowledge to understand people or processes. There's so many ways to break in, so do not get discouraged and don't be scared to think outside of the box to get your foot in the door.